The majority of travellers’ diarrhoea
is caused by ingesting faecal matter through food, water and dirty hands.
Food is best cooked to order. Avoid pre-prepared food or buffets.
Select popular busy outlets.
Vegetarian food is often safer than meat.
Avoid shellfish, salads, ice cream or unpeelable fruits and vegetables.
Boil it, peel it, cook it, or forget it.
Drink and brush teeth with bottled water.
Avoid ice and local drinks that aren’t boiled.
Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, and consider a 60% alcohol gel.
Symptoms of travellers’ diarrhoea can include
nausea, abdominal cramps, fever and vomiting.
The most debilitating effects of travellers’ diarrhoea are caused by dehydration.
You must replace body fluids by drinking safe water.
Use rehydration salts or make your own.
Any safe liquid is OK, but avoid caffeine, alcohol and dairy.
When you feel ready, eat bland foods.
Avoid grease and dairy.
If you are worried call your emergency contact,
especially if you see blood or it doesn’t go away in 3 days.
Travellers’ diarrhoea is the body getting rid of bugs, and is a good thing.
Avoid blocking drugs, unless you have no choice.